title: Using mynt - a static site generator
tags: webpage
share_post: True

---

This website is generated by using mynt -- a static site generator writen in python. Mynt will convert markdown text file to html by using the corresponding layout. [Mynt's website](http://mynt.uhnomoli.com/).

## Installation
Mynt is a python2 package, so python2 should be installed in the computer before installing and using mynt. (I am not sure if it works with python3.)

To install mynt, type this in command line:  

```
pip install mynt
```

## Initialize a new project/website
To start a new website at a local directory `~/project` with the name `site-name`, in command line:

```
mynt init ~/project/site-name/
## or force remove the existing project before create new project
mynt init -f ~/project/site-name/
```

### Website directory structure
Mynt will create the following directories and files in the `site-name` directory after the initialize:

```
site-name
│	config.yml
│	feed.xml
│	index.html
│
├───archives
│		index.html
├───_assets
│		├───css
│		│	│	pygments.css
│		│	│	screen.css
│		│	└───_sass
│		│			_base.sass
│		│			config.rb
│		│			screen.sass
│		├───images
│		│		bg.png
│		│		favicon.ico
│		│		sbg.png
│		└───js
│			│	mynt.min.js
│			└───_src
│					mynt.js
├───_posts
│		2011-12-04-It-works.md
└───_templates
│		archive.html
│		layout.html
│		page.header.html
│		post.html
│		tag.html
│
```

## Configuration
First thing to do, is to modify the `config.yml` file:

```
title: your title
author: your name
base_url: / # this should be change (if needed) according to the website configuration.
```

## Writing blog posts
Posts should be place under the `_posts` directory. There is a demo file come with the `init`. The demo file's name included the date when it is written (2011-12-04), which format should be followed while creating new post file (.md), to tell mynt when the post is written, so mynt would know how to sort the posts. The following part of the filename will be a part of the filename for the generated html files, which means it will appear at the address bar while people are looking at it.

Create a new file with file name like `2015-10-31-some-name.md`. The header and post content of the file should looks like this:

```
---
title: hey you
layout: post.html
tags: [testing]
---

## a sectiontitle
post content goes here. 

### a subsection title
blah blah blah...
**Use markdown here**.
```

In the header of the .md file:  
- The title `hey you` will be the title of the post, and also the title that will appear at the index page.
- the layout `post.html`, is telling the mynt which layout file in `_templates` to use, for rendering this post.
- the tags of the post.

The following things after the three dashes, are the content part of the post. Use markdown syntax to write the content. And maybe some html tags in the post if needed.

## Container
Sometimes, blog post is not the only type of post we want to write. For example in this website, I separated the posts into 5 types according to the topic (geograph, lightbulb...). This is the function of container. To add a new container (let say `funbox`) for the website, the config.yml file should add the following lines at the bottom of the files:

```
containers:
    funbox:
        url: /funbox/<slug>/
        tag_layout: funbox.tag.html
        tags_url: /funbox/tag/
```

that `funbox.tag.html` file should also be added in the `_templates` directory. (you could just copy and paste the `tag.html` and rename it)
Then, add the following directories (beside `_posts`):

```
site-name
├───_containers
│	└───funbox
│			2015-10-31-a_first_file.md
├───_templates
│		funboxpost.html
│		funbox.tag.html
```

The format of the post .md file is same as the blog post files, which probably will use the `funboxpost.html` as the layout file. 

## Layout templating and sytling
Mynt use the jinja2 templating engine. So, the layout files should be written or modified according to jinja2 style templating syntax. 

The styles -- the css and js files, should be place in the `_assets/css` and `_assets/js`. To get them, let say the `_assets/css/skeleton.css`, use:
```
{{ get_asset('css/skeleton.css') }}
```
*The template of this website is modified based on the initial template file, with the [skeleton](http://getskeleton.com/) sample file.*

## Generating website:
To generate the website to a directory `~/output/target` (`cd` to the `project` directory first, then):

```
cd project

mynt gen site-name output/target
## or, if the output/target is already exist, force overwriting it:
mynt gen -f site-name output/target
```

The generated html files and folders will appear under the `output/target` directory, which can be uploaded to the hosting space like gh-pages.

## Preview the website/post before publishing
Mynt come with a simple function (debug mode) for previewing:

```
mynt serve output/target
## or, to change the preview port
mynt serve output/target -p 8001
```

Then, open the web-browser, and go to the site `http://localhost:8001`. 

Then, possibly, you might need to modify the files, and then `mynt gen -f xxx yyy`, then `mynt serve yyy` again, until the website is ready. 

## Publishing website
Upload all of the files in the `output/target` directory to the hosting space. If you want to upload to a github-pages, then prepare the gh-pages as the [github pages](https://pages.github.com/) shows, then push the files to the master/gh-pages branch. There is some notes in [Pushing items to gh-pages](/2015/10/31/sync_ghpages/).

Tadaa...

