title: Geographically modified PageRank Algorithm: Measuring the importance of nodes in a geospatial network
category: Presentation
tags: network, pagerank
what: AAG Annual Meeting
where: Los Angeles, California, USA
date: 2013/04/09
share_post: True

---

#### Geographically modified PageRank Algorithm: Measuring the importance of nodes in a geospatial network

- Conference: AAG Annual Meeting
- Year: 2013
- Location: Los Angeles, California, USA
- Language: English
- Authors: Wei-Chien Benny-Chin, Tzai-Hung Wen

#### Abstract
A geospatial network represents the spatial relationships with the network perspective.  Within the scope of social network analysis, the network topology characteristics, including network centrality, small world and scale-free properties, have been well studied, and these concepts can also provide important implications on measuring the important of places in the geospatial network. However, most measures of social network analysis were designed to understand network topological structures rather than geographical structures. Therefore, these measures have not considered the geographical relationships as their main concern, including geographical distance between nodes and distance-decay property. PageRank, a link analysis algorithm, is what Google uses to determine how important a page is on the web. This study incorporates geographic properties, including distance-decay and spatial interactions among nodes, with traditional PageRank algorithm and proposes two modified PageRank algorithms, Distance-Inverse PageRank (DiPR) and Geographical PageRank (GPR), and compared the performance with existing algorithms: PageRank and Weighted PageRank. We demonstrate the use of these four algorithms with Taiwan city network, and compare our calculation results with existing network centrality metrics (degree, betweenness, closeness and eigenvector). Then, we calculated the Spearman's rho between our calculation results and population and transportation flow data. Our findings show that DiPR and GPR are better correlated to population distribution and transportation flow than other metrics.  Since DiPR and GPR take the distance decay effect into account, results using the algorithms can capture more geographical properties. Our findings suggest that DiPR and GPR are better metrics to be used in geospatial network analysis.

#### Keywords
distance decay, spatial interaction, PageRank, social network analysis, geospatial network 

#### Link
http://meridian.aag.org/callforpapers/program/AbstractDetail.cfm?AbstractID=51232

#### Presentation
http://prezi.com/ccz0fhq00yun/?utm_campaign=share&utm_medium=copy&rc=ex0share

<iframe id="iframe_container" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen="" width="550" height="400" src="https://prezi.com/embed/65e65d6d006c32ed7ba8009c571e9141996adddc/?bgcolor=ffffff&amp;lock_to_path=0&amp;autoplay=0&amp;autohide_ctrls=0&amp;landing_data=bHVZZmNaNDBIWnNjdEVENDRhZDFNZGNIUE43MHdLNWpsdFJLb2ZHanI5Z1RMM0llb3RpNzFhOVBMZmRuVDhCdjJBPT0&amp;landing_sign=7sGHmctsFT0dhKkpZAqY4cfy3cxQv1qrrYK-4YXYfJI"></iframe>
