title: A geo-computational algorithm for exploring the structure of diffusion progression in time and space
tags: TaPiTaS, diffusion progression, Dengue Fever, disease
category: Publication
share_post: True
featured_image: /images/post/article_tapitas_srep.png

---

#####Abstract
A diffusion process can be considered as the movement of linked events through space and time. Therefore, space-time locations of events are key to identify any diffusion process. However, previous clustering analysis methods have focused only on space-time proximity characteristics, neglecting the temporal lag of the movement of events. We argue that the temporal lag between events is a key to understand the process of diffusion movement. Using the temporal lag could help to clarify the types of close relationships. This study aims to develop a data exploration algorithm, namely the TrAcking Progression In Time And Space (TaPiTaS) algorithm, for understanding diffusion processes. Based on the spatial distance and temporal interval between cases, TaPiTaS detects sub-clusters, a group of events that have high probability of having common sources, identifies progression links, the relationships between sub-clusters, and tracks progression chains, the connected components of sub-clusters. Dengue Fever cases data was used as an illustrative case study. The location and temporal range of sub-clusters are presented, along with the progression links. TaPiTaS algorithm contributes a more detailed and in-depth understanding of the development of progression chains, namely the geographic diffusion process.

**Chin W. C. B.**, Wen T. H., Sabel C. E. & Wang I. H. (2017). A geo-computational algorithm for exploring the structure of diffusion progression in time and space. *Scientific Reports* 7: 12565. DOI http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-12852-z

<a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-12852-z" target="_blank">Link to abstract/full article page</a>
