title: Understanding the topological characteristics and flow complexity of urban traffic congestion
tags: PageRank, network analysis, transportation
category: Publication
share_post: True
featured_image: /images/post/article_fbpr_physicaa.png

---

#####Highlights
- We proposed a flow-based ranking algorithm for investigating traffic demands and flow complexity of the street network to identify congested segments.
- Traffic demands capture the concentration of human movements, and it can be determined by the flow-based ranking scores.
- Flow complexity, which can be determined by outgoing entropy, captures the complexity of street network topology and turning traffic simultaneously
- The results showed the segments identified as congested segments in this study are significantly close to the potential congestion zones.
- This study provides network topological insight to identify street-scale urban mobilities, which could be used for sustainable urban environments.

#####Abstract
For a growing number of developing cities, the capacities of streets cannot meet the rapidly growing demand of cars, causing traffic congestion. Understanding the spatial–temporal process of traffic flow and detecting traffic congestion are important issues associated with developing sustainable urban policies to resolve congestion. Therefore, the objective of this study is to propose a flow-based ranking algorithm for investigating traffic demands in terms of the attractiveness of street segments and flow complexity of the street network based on turning probability. Our results show that, by analyzing the topological characteristics of streets and volume data for a small fraction of street segments in Taipei City, the most congested segments of the city were identified successfully. The identified congested segments are significantly close to the potential congestion zones, including the officially announced most congested streets, the segments with slow moving speeds at rush hours, and the areas near significant landmarks. The identified congested segments also captured congestion-prone areas concentrated in the business districts and industrial areas of the city. Identifying the topological characteristics and flow complexity of traffic congestion provides network topological insights for sustainable urban planning, and these characteristics can be used to further understand congestion propagation.

#####Keywords
Traffic congestion; PageRank algorithm; Network topology; Mobility

Wen, T. H., **Chin, W. C. B.**, Lai, P. C. (2017). Understanding the topological characteristics and flow complexity of urban traffic congestion. *Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications* 473: 166-177. DOI: [https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.01.035](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.01.035) .

<a href="http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037843711730033X" target="_blank">Link to abstract/full article page</a>

<a href="https://bitbucket.org/wcchin/fbpr" target="_blank">Link to FBPR python codes</a>